---
input_text: >-
 "Treatment of Manifestations
Medical Issues
No therapy exists to prevent the multisystem and sometimes progressive organ involvement of BBS. Individuals with BBS require coordinated multidisciplinary care to formulate and 
coordinate management and therapeutic interventions. Cone-rod dystrophy. Early educational planning should be based on the certainty of blindness. Instruction in the use of Braille,
mobility training, adaptive living skills, and computing skills (including voice recognition and transcription software), as well as the use of large-print reading materials while 
vision is still present, are crucial. Obesity. A healthful, reduced-calorie diet with restricted simple carbohydrate intake and regular aerobic exercise, such as walking, hiking, 
biking, and swimming with adaptations for the blind, are recommended to control weight gain. Employment of a helper/partner to encourage exercise and appropriate diet may be 
beneficial. Metabolic syndrome and the other obesity-related complications of BBS should be treated as in the general population. All individuals will benefit from these 
lifestyle recommendations. Anosmia/hyposmia. Those with absent or reduced sense of smell should have alternative ways off detecting dangerous substances (e.g., spoiled food, smoke,
gas). Renal disease, gastrointestinal and liver disease, hypothyroidism, and hypogonadism should be treated as in the general population and according to national guidelines of the
various subspecialties. Anatomic abnormalities, including polydactyly, dental abnormalities, congenital heart disease, genitourinary malformations, and musculoskeletal abnormalities
may require surgical correction."
named_entities:
  - id: MONDO:0008854
    label: Bardet-biedl Syndrome 1
  - id: MAXO:0000088
    label: dietary intervention
  - id: HP:0000819 
    label: Diabetes mellitus
extracted_object:
  action_to_symptom:
    - subject: MAXO:0000088
      predicate: TREATS
      object:
        - HP:0000819
