---
input_text: >-
  "APC-Associated Polyposis Conditions
  Management. Treatment of manifestations: Resection of all colonic polyps larger than 5 mm found on colonic surveillance. There is an absolute 
	indication for colectomy when CRC is diagnosed or suspected, or when there are significant symptoms (e.g., bleeding, obstruction). Relative 
 indications for colectomy include presence of multiple adenomas larger than 10 mm that cannot be reasonably removed endoscopically, a significant 
 increase in adenoma number between surveillance exams, presence of adenomas with high-grade dysplasia, or inability to adequately survey the 
 colon (e.g., due to innumerable diminutive adenomas or limited access to or compliance with colonoscopy). Endoscopic or surgical removal of 
 duodenal adenomas is considered if polyps exhibit villous change or severe dysplasia, exceed 1 cm in diameter, or exhibit advanced stage using 
 Spigelman scoring system. Gastrectomy is considered if advanced gastric neoplasia is found on upper endoscopy. Osteomas may be removed for 
 cosmetic reasons. Desmoid tumors may be surgically excised or treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), anti-estrogens, 
 cytotoxic chemotherapy, and/or radiation if at advanced stage. Standard treatment when needed for adrenal masses and thyroid carcinoma. Several 
 studies have shown that NSAIDs and erlotinib have caused regression of adenomas and decreased the polyp burden in individuals with FAP, though 
 there are currently no FDA-approved chemopreventive agents for FAP, given an unclear effect on subsequent cancer risk.

Prevention of primary manifestations: Colectomy to reduce the risk for CRC in individuals with classic FAP. For individuals with attenuated FAP, 
colectomy may be necessary, but in approximately one third of individuals, the colonic polyps are limited enough in number that surveillance with 
periodic colonoscopic polypectomy is sufficient to prevent CRC. It is currently unknown if prophylactic gastrectomy should be considered in 
individuals with GAPPS.

Surveillance: Colorectal screening by colonoscopy every one to two years beginning at age ten to 15 years for classic FAP and in late adolescence 
for attenuated FAP; esophagogastroduodenoscopy with visualization of the ampulla of Vater by age 20 to 25 years or prior to colon surgery, with 
consideration of complete small bowel visualization in the setting of advanced Spigelman stage. Annual thyroid palpation, thyroid ultrasound, 
neurologic examination, and abdominal examination (for desmoids). Liver palpation, liver ultrasound, and measurement of serum alpha-fetoprotein 
every three to six months until age five years for hepatoblastoma. The efficacy of screening for gastric cancer in individuals with GAPPS is 
currently unknown."

named_entities:
  - id: MONDO:0021056
    label: Adenomatous Polyposis Coli
  - id: MAXO:0001110
    label: tumorectomy
  - id: HP:0100245
    label: Desmoid tumors
  - id: MAXO:0000885
    label: surgical removal procedure
  - id: HP:0030731
    label: Carcinoma
  - id: MAXO:0000885
    label: surgical removal procedure
  - id: HP:0004394
    label: Multiple gastric polyps
  - id: MAXO:0000885
    label: surgical removal procedure
  - id: HP:0006722
    label: Small intestine carcinoid
extracted_object:
  action_to_symptom:
    - subject: MAXO:0001110
      predicate: TREATS
      object:
        - HP:0100245
    - subject: MAXO:0000885
      predicate: TREATS
      object:
        - HP:0030731
				- HP:0004394
				- HP:0006722
